docs/docs/self-hosting.mdx, before:

---
title: Self Hosting
---

import { Badge } from "@theme";


## Configuration

For the most up to date view on all configuration options, please refer to [the source code](https://github.com/usefloww/floww-backend/blob/main/app/settings.py).


For self hosting, the following options are recommended:

```yaml
# This is needed for webhooks to correctly reach the backend
PUBLIC_API_URL: <your-public-url>

# Depending on your deployment environment, you can choose to run the 
# the user code in a container on the local machine or on a kubernetes cluster
RUNTIME_TYPE: docker | kubernetes

# Saves you the hassle of running migrations seperately
RUN_MIGRATIONS_ON_STARTUP: true
```


## Components & Services

- Floww Backend
- Floww Dashboard
- Centrifugo
- Registry


## Deployment options

### Docker Compose
The simplest way to get started with self hosting is to use [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

When using docker compose for self hosting floww will spin up images with the runtimes for user code and will scale the container back to 0 when not in use (after 5 minutes of inactivity).

#### Requirements

- Docker
- Docker Compose
- A public url for the backend to be reachable from the internet

#### Deployment

Create the following docker compose file


```bash
curl -L https://docs.usefloww.dev/install.sh -o install-floww.sh && bash install-floww.sh
```


Now you should be able to start the services with:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```


### Kubernetes

<Badge type="warning">Coming soon</Badge>

Commit message:

add usage section in self hosting

docs/docs/self-hosting.mdx, after:

---
title: Self Hosting
---

import { Badge } from "@theme";


## Configuration

For the most up to date view on all configuration options, please refer to [the source code](https://github.com/usefloww/floww-backend/blob/main/app/settings.py).


For self hosting, the following options are recommended:

```yaml
# This is needed for webhooks to correctly reach the backend
PUBLIC_API_URL: <your-public-url>

# Depending on your deployment environment, you can choose to run the 
# the user code in a container on the local machine or on a kubernetes cluster
RUNTIME_TYPE: docker | kubernetes

# Saves you the hassle of running migrations seperately
RUN_MIGRATIONS_ON_STARTUP: true
```


## Components & Services

- Floww Backend
- Floww Dashboard
- Centrifugo
- Registry


## Deployment options

### Docker Compose
The simplest way to get started with self hosting is to use [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

When using docker compose for self hosting floww will spin up images with the runtimes for user code and will scale the container back to 0 when not in use (after 5 minutes of inactivity).

#### Requirements

- Docker
- Docker Compose
- A public url for the backend to be reachable from the internet

#### Deployment

Run the following command to install Floww:


```bash
curl -L https://docs.usefloww.dev/install.sh -o install-floww.sh && bash install-floww.sh
```


Now you should be able to start the services with:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```


### Kubernetes

<Badge type="warning">Coming soon</Badge>


## Usage

To use the self hosted version of Floww, you can use the following commands you can use the following commands

```bash
npx floww login --backend-url <your-backend-url>
```
